[Music]
on March 14 this year I post this poster
on Facebook this is an image of me and
my daughter ordering the Israeli flag I
will try to explain you about the
context of why and when I post it few
days ago I was sitting waiting on the
line at the grocery store and the owner
and one of the client were talking to
each other and the owner was explaining
the clients that we're gonna get ten
thousand missiles on Israel and the
client will say no it's ten thousand a
day this is the context this is where we
are now in Israel we have this war with
Iran coming for ten years now and we
have people you know afraid it's like
every year it's the last minute that we
can do something about the war with Iran
it's like if we don't act now it's too
late forever for 10 years now so at some
point it became you know to me I'm a
graphic designer so I made poster about
it and I post the one I just showed you
before most of the time I met poster I
post them on Facebook my friend like
kids don't like it most of the time
don't like it don't share it on nothing
and it's another day so I went to sleep
and that was it for me and later on the
night I woke up because I always walking
up in the night and I went by the
computer and I see all these red dots
you know on Facebook which I never seen
before and I was like what's going on so
I come to the computer and I start
looking on and suddenly I see many
people talking to me most of them I
don't know and few of them from Iran
which is what
because you have to understand in Israel
we don't talk with people from Iran we
don't know people from Iran it's like
what on Facebook you you are friends
only from it's like your neighbors are
your friend on Facebook and now people
from Iran are like talking to me so I
start to answering this girl and she's
telling me she saw the poster and she
asked her family to come because they
don't have a computer she has a family
to come to see the poster and they're
all sitting in the living room crying so
I'm like oh I asking my wife to come and
I tell you have to see that people are
crying and she can she read the text and
she start to climb and everybody's
crying now so I don't know what to do so
my first reflex as a graphic designer
is you know to show everybody what I
just seen and people start to see them
and to share them and that's how it
started the day after when really it
become a lot of talking I said to myself
and my wife said to me I also want a
poster so this is Earth
because it's working put me in a Boston
now but more seriously I was like okay
this one's work but it's not just about
me it's it's about people from Israel
want to say something so I gonna shoot
all the people I know if they want and
I'm gonna put them in a poster and we're
gonna share them so I went to my
neighbors and friends and students and I
just asked them give me a picture I will
make you a poster and that's how it
started and that's how really its
unleash it because suddenly people from
Facebook friends and others just
understand that they can be part of it
it's not just one dude making one poster
it's we can be part of it so that starts
sending me pictures and asked me make me
a poster post it tell the Iranians we
from Israel love you too it become you
know at some point it was really really
intense in I mean so many pictures so I
asked friends to come graphic designer
most of them to make poster with me
because I didn't have the time it was in
a huge amount of picture so for few days
that's how my living room was and we
receive Israeli posters Israeli image
but also a lot of comments lot of
messages from Iran and we took these
messages and we met poster out of it
because I know people they don't read
they see images if it's an image that
may read it so just few of them this one
is really moving for me because it's the
story of a girl that has been raised in
Iran to walk on the Israeli flag to
enter or school every morning and now
that she see the posters that were
sending she started she said that she
changed her mind and now she she loves
that blue she loved that star and she
loved that flag talking about the
Israeli flag and she wished that we meet
and we come to visit one each other in
just few day after I posted the first
poster the day after
Iranian start to respond with their own
posters they have graphic designers what
is crazy so you can see they're still
shy that don't want to show their faces
but they want to spread the message they
want to respond I want to say the same
thing so and now it's communication it's
a two-way story it's Israeli
an Iranian sending the same message one
to each other
this never happened before and this is
two people supposed to be enemy we on a
verge of a war and suddenly people on
Facebook starting to say I like this guy
I love those guys and it become really
big as at some point and then it's
become news because when you sing the
Middle East you see only the bad news
and suddenly there is something that was
happening that was good news so the guys
of the news they say okay let's talk
about this and they just came and it was
so much I remember one day me Holl she
was talking with the journalist and she
was asking him who's gonna see the show
and he said everybody so she said
everybody in the in Palestine in where
Israel who is everybody everybody
there's a Syria Syria Lebanon Lebanon at
some point you just say 40 million
people are going to see you today
it's everybody the Chinese and if we
were just at the beginning of the story
something crazy also happened every time
a country start talking about it like
Germany America wherever a page on
Facebook pop up with the same logo with
the same stories so at the beginning we
had Iran love Israel which is a new
Ronnie sitting in Tehran say okay
Israel loves Iran I give you Iran of
Israel you have Palestine of Israel you
have Lebanon that just a few days ago
and this all list of pages on Facebook
dedicated to the same message too
people sending their loved one to each
other the moment I really understand
that something was happening a friend of
mine tells me Google the word Israel and
that those were the first images on
those day that pop-ups from Google when
you were typing Israel or Iran we really
change how people sees the Middle East
because you'll not hinder me the list
you somewhere over there and then you
want to see the Middle East so you go
and Google you say Israel and to give
you the bad stuff and for a few day you
got those images today the Israel of z1
pages this number 18002 million people
last week went on the page and share
like I don't know comment one of the
photos so for five months now that's
what we are doing me McHale few of my
friends are just making images with
showing a new reality by just making
images because that's how the world
perceives us they see images of us and
to see bad images so we're working on
making good images end of story
look at this one this is the Iran love
Israel page this is not the Israel of
Iran this is not my purse this is a guy
in Tehran on the day of remembrance of
the Israelis fallen soldier putting an
image of an Israeli soldier on his page
this is a this is the enemy
what and it's going both way it's like
we're showing respect one to each other
and we understanding and you show
compassion and you become friends and at
some point you become friend on Facebook
and you become friend in life you can go
and travel and meet people and I was in
Munich a few weeks ago I went there to
open a can exposition about Iran and I
meet there with people
from the page that told me okay you're
gonna bid in Europe I'm coming I'm
coming from France from Holland from
Germany of course and from Israel people
came and we just met there for the first
time in real life I met with people that
are supposed to be my enemies for the
first time and with the Czech hand and
have a coffee and a nice discussion and
we talked about food and basketball and
that was the end of it remember that
image from the beginning at some point
we meet in real life and we become
friends and it goes the other way around
some girl that we met on Facebook never
been in Israel born and raised in Iran
live in Germany afraid of Israeli
because of what she know about us decide
after few months of talking on the
internet with some Israeli to came in
Israel and she get on the plane and
arrive at ben-gurion and say okay not
that big deal so few weeks ago the
stress is is getting higher so we start
this new campaign called not ready to
die in your world
I mean it's plasmon is the same message
but we wanted really to to add some
aggressivity to it and again something
amazing happen something that we didn't
have on the first wave of the campaign
now people from Iran the same one who
were shy at the first campaign and just
send you know their food and have their
faces now they are sending their faces
and they say okay no problem we're into
it we are with you just read where those
guys are from and for every guy from
Israel you got someone from Iran
just people sending their pictures
crazy yes so so you may ask yourself who
is this dude my name is Ronnie a dream
and I'm 41 I'm an Israeli I'm a father
of two I'm a husband and I'm a graphic
designer
and teaching graphic design and I'm not
that naive because lot of the time I've
been asked many time I've been asked
yeah but this is really nice sending
flowers over him I mean I'm I was in the
Army I was in the paratroopers for three
years and I know how it looks from the
ground I know how it can look really bad
so to me this is the courageous thing to
do to try to reach the other side before
it's too late
because when it's gonna be too late it's
going to be too late and sometimes war
is inevitable sometimes but maybe doing
an effort we can avoid it
maybe as people because especially in
Israel we're in a democracy we have the
freedom of speech and maybe that little
thing can change something and really we
can be our own ambassadors we can just
send a message and hope for the best so
I want to ask me howl my wife to come
with me on the stage just to make with
you one image because it's all about
images and maybe that image will help us
change something just to raise that
exactly and I just want to take a
picture of it and I'm just gonna post it
on Facebook with kind of Israeli for
peace or something oh my god
don't kind thank you guys
[Applause]
[Music]